Add new file for python template episode (#1)
SS-NES/SS-NES-lesson: episodes/python-template.md

---
title: "Generating a Repository using a Template"
teaching: 10
exercises: 2
---

:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: questions 

> - How can you quickly set up a new Python repository that follows best practices?

Reviewer: If we connect it also to the SMP we can add the question:
How to create a new Python repository that covers your needs and follows best practices

- Demonstrate how to create a repository using the [NLeSC Python Template]
- Demonstrate how to use the upgrade feature of [`copier`] to extend your
  repository with extra features

::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::

## Why use a template?

No matter how (in)experienced a programmer you are, using a template when
starting a new project is always a good idea. Templates let you easily make
use of the latest and greatest in best practices, without having to reinvent
the wheel for every project.

For people new to software development, this means you can trust in the prior
work of many other experienced people, and only have to focus on those parts
that are particularly relevant to your project. For experienced developers it
means you don't have to manually copy over the boilerplate code from a previous
project. This means you don't have to replace all your old values manually and
won't have a chance to accidentally forget some of them, while also keeping you
easily up to date with the latest and greatest instead of remaining stuck at
a previous point in time.

In both cases, using a trusted template will save you time, worries and make

> sure your new projects are never outdated from the start.

Reviewer: Rephrase:

As someone who is new to programming, employing a template can help you to setup your first projects and help you adhere to coding standards such that your software can be understood by others.
In general employing templates saves time and helps to prevent confusion when copy pasting from old repositories. E.g. parameters and specific configurations are easily overlooked and not being edited. 

In both cases ....

pipx install copier
```

Now you can use `copier` as a standalone tool to create new projects.

::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: challenge 

## Challenge 1: Use the NLeSC Python Template

Create a new project based on the Python template by the Netherlands eScience Center:

:::::::::::::::::::::::: solution

```bash
copier copy gh:nlesc/python-template path/to/destination
```

:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::

::::::::::::::::::::::::: callout

Copier can create a project from a local folder and from a remote git
repository URL such as [https://github.com/nlesc/python-template.git].
The following shortcut URLs are also supported:

- GitHub: `gh:namespace/project`
- GitLab: `gl:namespace/project`

:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::

Notice how you are asked to answer a lot of basic information that you already
filled in for the SMP.

## Challenge 2: Reuse machine readable SMP tool output

The SMP tool provides a machine readable `yaml` file with all relevant answers
for creating a new project using this template. First remove the previous
project to make sure everything stays clean:

```bash
rm -rf path/to/destination
```

:::::::::::::::::::::::: solution 

```bash

> copier copy --answer-file smp_answers.yaml gh:nlesc/python-template path/to/destination

Reviewer: I thin this does not work (yet). I get the following error:

```
Error: Unknown switch --answer-file
```

Author: Good catch, that's supposed to be `--answers-file` (plural instead of singular)

```

:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::

Note how you were asked a lot fewer questions this time! Part of this is simply
filling in the information you already entered in the SMP. For the other
questions you weren't asked, the SMP tool has already suggested which set of
optional features best suit your project.

> Because of a limitation in how `copier` handles these answer files, you don't
> to review these choices when first creating your project. But luckily there is
> a way to review the choices and to add extra features if you want.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Due to the limitation how `copier` handles the answer files, you also cannot review choices you made in the SMP. We will show you how to revise choices and add extra features to your code repository below:
```

global environment of the user, and so they don't have to install it in their
(not-yet-existant) project space. It's only recommended to let participants
deviate from this advice and directly `pip install copier` if they (confidently)
know what they're doing.

::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::

A popular tool for using and applying templates is the Python tool [`copier`].
Using `copier`, you can create a project based on a template made by yourself
or someone else. Templates can be configured to ask you some questions for
details that `copier` will then fill in throughout the files to personalize it
to suit your needs.

The recommended way to install `copier` as a local tool is using `pipx`:

```bash
python3 -m pip install --user pipx
python3 -m pipx --ensurepath
pipx install copier
```

Now you can use `copier` as a standalone tool to create new projects.

::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: challenge

## Challenge 1: Use the NLeSC Python Template

Create a new project based on the Python template by the Netherlands eScience Center:

:::::::::::::::::::::::: solution

```bash

> copier copy gh:nlesc/python-template path/to/destination

Reviewer: Some word of explanation to the `path/to/destination` will make it clearer that it is not a path in the github of the python-template e.g. `path/to/your/code/project`

Author: I've updated `path/to/destination` to `path/for/your/project`
